source/_components/caldav.markdown, before:

---
layout: page
title: "CalDav"
description: "Instructions on how to integrate a WebDav calendar into Home Assistant."
date: 2017-11-27 23:14
sidebar: true
comments: false
sharing: true
footer: true
ha_category: Calendar
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_release: "0.60"
redirect_from:
 - /components/calendar.caldav/
---

The `caldav` platform allows you to connect to your WebDav calendar and generate
binary sensors. A different sensor will be created for each individual calendar,
or you can specify custom calendars which match a criteria you define (more on
that below). These sensors will be `on` if you have an on going event in that
calendar or `off` if the event is later in time, or if there is no event at all.
The WebDav calendar get updated roughly every 15 minutes.

### {% linkable_title Prerequisites %}

You need to have a CalDav server and credentials for it. This component was
tested against [Baikal](http://sabre.io/baikal/) but any component complying
with the RFC4791 should work. [Nextcloud](https://nextcloud.com/)
and [Owncloud](https://owncloud.org/) work fine.

You might need some additional system packages to compile the
Python caldav library. On a Debian based system, install them by:

```bash
$ sudo apt-get install libxml2-dev libxslt1-dev zlib1g-dev
```

### {% linkable_title Basic Setup %}

To integrate a WebDav calendar in Home Assistant,
add the following section to your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry for baikal
calendar:
  - platform: caldav
    username: john.doe@test.com
    password: !secret caldav
    url: https://baikal.my-server.net/cal.php/calendars/john.doe@test.com/default
```

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry for nextcloud, calendars will be found automatically
calendar:
  - platform: caldav
    username: john.doe
    password: !secret caldav
    url: https://nextcloud.example.com/remote.php/dav
```

This example will generate default binary sensors for each calendar you have in
your account. Those calendars will be `on` when there is an ongoing event and
`off` if not. Events that last a whole day are ignored in those calendars.
You have to setup custom calendars in order to take them into account or for
advanced event filtering.

### {% linkable_title Custom calendars %}

You have the possibility to create multiple binary
sensors for events that match certain conditions.

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
calendar:
  - platform: caldav
    username: john.doe@test.com
    password: !secret caldav
    url: https://baikal.my-server.net/cal.php/calendars/john.doe@test.com/default
    custom_calendars:
      - name: 'HomeOffice'
        calendar: 'Agenda'
        search: 'HomeOffice'
      - name: 'WarmupFlat'
        calendar: 'Agenda'
        search: 'Warmup'
```

This will create two binary sensors for the calendar name Agenda: "HomeOffice"
and "WarmupFlat". Those sensors will be `on` if there is an ongoing event
matching the regular expression specified in `search`.
In custom calendars, events that last a whole day are taken into account.

Please note that when you configure custom calendars,
the default ones are not created anymore.

{% configuration %}
url:
  required: true
  description: The full URL to your calendars.
  type: string
username:
  required: false
  description: Username for authentication.
  type: string
password:
  required: false
  description: Password for authentication.
  type: string
calendars:
  required: false
  description: >
    List of the calendars to filter.
    Empty or absent means no filtering, i.e. all calendars will be added.
  type: list
custom_calendars:
  required: false
  description: Details on any custom binary sensor calendars you want to create.
  type: list
  keys:
    name:
      required: true
      description: The name of your custom calendar.
      type: string
    calendar:
      required: true
      description: The source calendar to search on.
      type: string
    search:
      required: true
      description: >
        Regular expression for filtering the events based on
        the content of their summary, description or location.
      type: string
{% endconfiguration %}

### {% linkable_title Sensor attributes %}

 - **offset_reached**: If set in the event title and parsed out will be on/off once the offset in the title in minutes is reached. So the title Very important meeting !!-10 would trigger this attribute to be on 10 minutes before the event starts.
 - **all_day**: `True/False` if this is an all day event. Will be `False` if there is no event found.
 - **message**: The event title with the `search` values extracted. So in the above example for `offset_reached` the message would be set to Very important meeting
 - **description**: The event description.
 - **location**: The event Location.
 - **start_time**: Start time of event.
 - **end_time**: End time of event.

### {% linkable_title Examples %}

All events of the calendars "private" and "holidays". Note that all day events are not included.
```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry for nextcloud
calendar:
  - platform: caldav
    url: https://nextcloud.example.com/remote.php/dav
    username: 'me'
    password: !secret caldav
    calendars:
      - private
      - holidays
```

Full example with automation to wake up to music if not holiday.
Prerequisite: you have a calendar named "work" where
you create calendar entries containing "Holiday".

Custom calendar names are built from the
main calendar + name of the custom calendar.

```yaml
# configuration.yaml
calendar:
  - platform: caldav
    url: https://nextcloud.example.com/remote.php/dav
    username: 'me'
    password: !secret caldav
    custom_calendars:
      - name: holiday
        calendar: work
        search: 'Holiday'

# automations.yaml
- id: wakeup
  alias: worktime wakeup
  trigger:
    platform: time
    at: '06:40:00'
  action:
  - service: media_player.media_play
    entity_id: media_player.bedroom
  condition:
  - condition: state
    entity_id: calendar.work_holiday
    state: 'off'
```

Commit message:

Added the option 'verify_ssl'
I made a pull request here:
https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant/pull/23139
This pull request updates the documentation accordingly

source/_components/caldav.markdown, after:

---
layout: page
title: "CalDav"
description: "Instructions on how to integrate a WebDav calendar into Home Assistant."
date: 2017-11-27 23:14
sidebar: true
comments: false
sharing: true
footer: true
ha_category: Calendar
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_release: "0.60"
redirect_from:
 - /components/calendar.caldav/
---

The `caldav` platform allows you to connect to your WebDav calendar and generate
binary sensors. A different sensor will be created for each individual calendar,
or you can specify custom calendars which match a criteria you define (more on
that below). These sensors will be `on` if you have an on going event in that
calendar or `off` if the event is later in time, or if there is no event at all.
The WebDav calendar get updated roughly every 15 minutes.

### {% linkable_title Prerequisites %}

You need to have a CalDav server and credentials for it. This component was
tested against [Baikal](http://sabre.io/baikal/) but any component complying
with the RFC4791 should work. [Nextcloud](https://nextcloud.com/)
and [Owncloud](https://owncloud.org/) work fine.

You might need some additional system packages to compile the
Python caldav library. On a Debian based system, install them by:

```bash
$ sudo apt-get install libxml2-dev libxslt1-dev zlib1g-dev
```

### {% linkable_title Basic Setup %}

To integrate a WebDav calendar in Home Assistant,
add the following section to your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry for baikal
calendar:
  - platform: caldav
    username: john.doe@test.com
    password: !secret caldav
    url: https://baikal.my-server.net/cal.php/calendars/john.doe@test.com/default
```

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry for nextcloud, calendars will be found automatically
calendar:
  - platform: caldav
    username: john.doe
    password: !secret caldav
    url: https://nextcloud.example.com/remote.php/dav
```

This example will generate default binary sensors for each calendar you have in
your account. Those calendars will be `on` when there is an ongoing event and
`off` if not. Events that last a whole day are ignored in those calendars.
You have to setup custom calendars in order to take them into account or for
advanced event filtering.

### {% linkable_title Custom calendars %}

You have the possibility to create multiple binary
sensors for events that match certain conditions.

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
calendar:
  - platform: caldav
    username: john.doe@test.com
    password: !secret caldav
    url: https://baikal.my-server.net/cal.php/calendars/john.doe@test.com/default
    custom_calendars:
      - name: 'HomeOffice'
        calendar: 'Agenda'
        search: 'HomeOffice'
      - name: 'WarmupFlat'
        calendar: 'Agenda'
        search: 'Warmup'
```

This will create two binary sensors for the calendar name Agenda: "HomeOffice"
and "WarmupFlat". Those sensors will be `on` if there is an ongoing event
matching the regular expression specified in `search`.
In custom calendars, events that last a whole day are taken into account.

Please note that when you configure custom calendars,
the default ones are not created anymore.

{% configuration %}
url:
  required: true
  description: The full URL to your calendars.
  type: string
username:
  required: false
  description: Username for authentication.
  type: string
password:
  required: false
  description: Password for authentication.
  type: string
calendars:
  required: false
  description: >
    List of the calendars to filter.
    Empty or absent means no filtering, i.e. all calendars will be added.
  type: list
custom_calendars:
  required: false
  description: Details on any custom binary sensor calendars you want to create.
  type: list
  keys:
    name:
      required: true
      description: The name of your custom calendar.
      type: string
    calendar:
      required: true
      description: The source calendar to search on.
      type: string
    search:
      required: true
      description: >
        Regular expression for filtering the events based on
        the content of their summary, description or location.
      type: string
verify_ssl:
  required: false
  description: >
    If you are using self-signed certificates, set this option to false.
    This can be a security risk! Only use this option if you know what you are doing.
  type: boolean
{% endconfiguration %}

### {% linkable_title Sensor attributes %}

 - **offset_reached**: If set in the event title and parsed out will be on/off once the offset in the title in minutes is reached. So the title Very important meeting !!-10 would trigger this attribute to be on 10 minutes before the event starts.
 - **all_day**: `True/False` if this is an all day event. Will be `False` if there is no event found.
 - **message**: The event title with the `search` values extracted. So in the above example for `offset_reached` the message would be set to Very important meeting
 - **description**: The event description.
 - **location**: The event Location.
 - **start_time**: Start time of event.
 - **end_time**: End time of event.

### {% linkable_title Examples %}

All events of the calendars "private" and "holidays". Note that all day events are not included.
```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry for nextcloud
calendar:
  - platform: caldav
    url: https://nextcloud.example.com/remote.php/dav
    username: 'me'
    password: !secret caldav
    calendars:
      - private
      - holidays
```

Full example with automation to wake up to music if not holiday.
Prerequisite: you have a calendar named "work" where
you create calendar entries containing "Holiday".

Custom calendar names are built from the
main calendar + name of the custom calendar.

```yaml
# configuration.yaml
calendar:
  - platform: caldav
    url: https://nextcloud.example.com/remote.php/dav
    username: 'me'
    password: !secret caldav
    custom_calendars:
      - name: holiday
        calendar: work
        search: 'Holiday'

# automations.yaml
- id: wakeup
  alias: worktime wakeup
  trigger:
    platform: time
    at: '06:40:00'
  action:
  - service: media_player.media_play
    entity_id: media_player.bedroom
  condition:
  - condition: state
    entity_id: calendar.work_holiday
    state: 'off'
```
